# Project Management

* [10.1 Team processing](#101-team-processing)
* [10.2 Work plans](#102-work-plans)
* [10.3 Asana](#103-asana)
* [10.4 Time management: Toggl and Harvest](#104-time-management-toggl-and-harvest)

## 10.1 Team Processing

At the end of each fiscal year, the Head of Collections Services, in consultation with the Rose Library Leadership Team, determines priorities for in-depth processing projects for the upcoming year.  They base their decisions on use in the reading room, curatorial priority, input from the Collection Services Unit, and conservation needs.  The Head of Collection Services assigns projects to each processing team, consisting of a Manuscript Archivist and two or more graduate student assistants. 

The Manuscript Archivist leads the team, creates a work plan, sets goals, and directs student work.  Each team member is assigned portions of the collection to process based on the work plan.  This includes physical arrangement and foldering as well as description such as scope and content and biographical/historical notes.  The Manuscript Archivist works closely with the students to ensure that the collections are being processed according to professional standards.  The Manuscript Archivist is responsible for the arrangement plan, but processing students should feel confident to discuss other options and ideas with the Manuscript Archivist.  As students work through their assignments, they may discover information or records that will alter the original arrangement plan.  It is important to share such information so appropriate decisions can be made.  Since each team member is responsible for discreet sections of the collection, communication is key to ensuring that relationships between sections are maintained and well described.   

The Manuscript Archivist generally is responsible for compiling the component level descriptions into a finding aid and creating the collection level description.  However, as processing students gain more experience, the Manuscript Archivist may delegate some or all of this work.  The Manuscript Archivist reviews the portions of the finding aids for which the processing students are responsible.  The Archivist should share any changes or corrections with the students, particularly if these affect the physical arrangement of folders within the collection.  When the finding aid is complete, the Manuscript Archivist will send it to other archivists and the curator responsible for acquiring the collection (See [5.3 Reviewing and encoding finding aids](/5-DESCRIPTION#53-reviewing-and-editing-finding-aids) for additional information).

## 10.2 Work Plans

Work plans are the blueprints for processing a collection.  The work plan outlines the arrangement of a collection, identifies a collection's preservation needs, and recommends appraisal and weeding actions.  The work plan also includes estimates of the time needed to process the collection and processing assignments for each component.  The work plan will also contain information found in the collection file, including restrictions placed on the materials and important information about the creator or the custodial history of the collection that may affect processing.  As processing proceeds, team members will record decisions and changes that alter or add complexity to the original plan.  The work plan is a living document for the duration of the project and is not considered complete until the project is finished.  [Link to template somewhere in here.] 

Much of the content of the work plan will come from the collection assessment [link].  When the plan is complete, the Manuscript Archivist will share the document with the Head of Collection Services and the curator responsible for acquiring the collection.  Each party may make suggestions or ask questions about elements of the plan.  At this point, it may be necessary to schedule a face to face conversation with the curator to discuss strategy or ask/answer questions.  Curators often have important information about collection creators that can influence archival processing decisions.  If that conversation has not already happened, review of the work plan is a good time to ensure all relevant information has been shared. 

The Manuscript Archivist should review approved work plans with their processing team.  Though it is likely that the students are already well aware of the arrangement plans from their involvement in the collection assessment and preliminary sorting, notify them of any changes and confirm that they are aware of and understand their assignments. 

When the processing project is complete and all updates have been made to the work plan, file it in the permanent collection file (CL-2). 

## 10.3 Asana

[Asana](https://asana.com) is the project management program that Collection Services uses to track processing projects. Projects can be divided into task lists and each task can be assigned to individual team members.  Asana will send reminders about approaching deadlines to whoever is assigned a particular task.  Asana also allows team members to communicate via comments on tasks.  This program also offers a calendar view that allows team members to see deadlines in relation to other unit projects.  When a task is marked complete, a rainbow unicorn or other mythical creature will fly across the computer screen to celebrate. 

## 10.4 Time Management: Toggl and Harvest

There are several tools processing teams will sometimes choose to use to manage and track the time they devote to different tasks.  [Toggl](https://toggl.com) is a project management program that helps determine the time commitment to each project. It tracks the time – like a stopwatch- of the project on which you are working. It can track multiple projects in addition to the tasks within the projects and sends a weekly statement of your usage. [Harvest](https://www.getharvest.com) is another tool that measures work progress. Both Harvest and Toggl work on the same principle, but Harvest can be integrated into Asana which allows for all tracking to be hosted in one space. There is a paid version of Harvest that allows for the tracking of multiple projects, but the free version allows for subdivisions of duties that works much the same way without an added cost. 